CASMPET-7619/CASMPET-7620/CASMPET-7621/CASMPET-7630/CASMPET-7632: Create/fix procedures for changing iSCSI workers (#6132)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/iscsi_sbps/Node_Personalization_Verification.md

> # Post-personalization Verification

Reviewer: The top-level header and file name should match.

> # Post-personalization Verification

Reviewer: There are no links to this new page. Any time a new page is added, we need to make sure that links are created to it in the places where users will find helpful.

At a minimum this should probably be linked from the main iSCSI page (iscsi_sbps) and possible the Managing selective node personalization page (any time after the CFS script is run, it should probably then have a pointer to this page, showing them how they can verify that the configuration was completed successfully).

Reviewer: The link was added to the operations index and the iscsi_sbps page, but it should also be mentioned in the Managing node personalization page as an optional check after they've re-run CFS on the worker nodes, and after they've added an NCN that is enabled for iSCSI

> (`ncn-w#`) Run these checks on each worker node, in order to verify that it was configured correctly.

Reviewer: Context needs to be added here. What configuration is being verified on the worker node?

You don't need to say a lot, because obviously this page is in the `iscsi_sbps` folder, so people could reasonably deduce that this is related to that. But it should be explicitly mentioned here as well, just to make it clear.

> (`ncn-w#`) Run these checks on each worker node, in order to verify that it was configured correctly.

Reviewer: Also, if they run this on every worker node, won't they see issues for the workers that are not enabled as iSCSI targets? Or are some of these checks that iSCSI is configured (and therefore would apply to all worker nodes) and some of these are checks that the worker is enabled as an iSCSI target (which may not work on all worker nodes)?

Reviewer: This has not been resolved. It still instructs them to run this on every worker. As far as I can tell, the first step needs to run on every worker that is enabled as an iscsi target, but not the others. The second step seems like it just needs to be run once, not on every worker, since it seems like it is listing all the records for all of the workers. And there's no way to know about the third step, since it links to an external page (NOT a good practice for CSM docs).

Reviewer: I see that the document has been changed to say to run the steps on every worker that is enabled for iscsi. But that doesn't address the fact that the second step seems like it only needs to be run once, not on every node, unless I am misunderstanding it. And if you are linking to an external page, you probably don't want to tell them to run that on every worker node, because it's possible that page will change in such a way that it has some tests which only need to be run once. As long as that is a page out somewhere else, we don't want to write things here that make those kind of assumptions about it.

Author: Modified the text to verify on iSCSI targets only.

Reviewer: The text at the top of the page still says to run "these checks" (presumably meaning all of the checks on the page) on worker nodes that are enabled as iSCSI targets. To reiterate, I have two concerns about that which are still not addressed:

1. The step to check the DNS records does not seem like it needs to be run on more than one node, because it seems that the command being used is listing the records for all of the workers. This means that this conflicts with the statement at the top of the page, by asking the admins to superfluously run this on every iSCSI-enabled worker.

2. The Goss step should also not be covered under this "every worker node" umbrella, since that other page may say to run tests on all worker nodes, for example, iSCSI or not. This will be the case once the ticket is addressed to have the tests verify that non-ISCSI nodes have the service inactive, for example. As long as this is pointing to a page somewhere else, than this page should not make declarations like saying that the Goss tests should be run on every iscsi-enabled worker.

Author: > Also, if they run this on every worker node, won't they see issues for the workers that are not enabled as iSCSI targets? Or are some of these checks that iSCSI is configured (and therefore would apply to all worker nodes) and some of these are checks that the worker is enabled as an iSCSI target (which may not work on all worker nodes)?

>> This has been reworded as "Run these checks on worker nodes that are enabled as an iSCSI target only in order to verify that it is configured correctly"

Author: > I see that the document has been changed to say to run the steps on every worker that is enabled for iscsi. But that doesn't address the fact that the second step seems like it only needs to be run once, not on every node, unless I am misunderstanding it. And if you are linking to an external page, you probably don't want to tell them to run that on every worker node, because it's possible that page will change in such a way that it has some tests which only need to be run once. As long as that is a page out somewhere else, we don't want to write things here that make those kind of assumptions about it.

>> I hope you meant the second step "Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created", this has to be run on every node where iSCSI is enabled and all the steps mentioned in this page are intended to run once. Goss tests for iSCSI have a check for kuberentes label (iscsi=sbps) , if this label is present it will do the goss sanity checks else it will bail out with a message that iSCSI is not configured.

Author: > The text at the top of the page still says to run "these checks" (presumably meaning all of the checks on the page) on worker nodes that are enabled as iSCSI targets. To reiterate, I have two concerns about that which are still not addressed:
> 
> 1. The step to check the DNS records does not seem like it needs to be run on more than one node, because it seems that the command being used is listing the records for all of the workers. This means that this conflicts with the statement at the top of the page, by asking the admins to superfluously run this on every iSCSI-enabled worker.
> 2. The Goss step should also not be covered under this "every worker node" umbrella, since that other page may say to run tests on all worker nodes, for example, iSCSI or not. This will be the case once the ticket is addressed to have the tests verify that non-ISCSI nodes have the service inactive, for example. As long as this is pointing to a page somewhere else, than this page should not make declarations like saying that the Goss tests should be run on every iscsi-enabled worker.

For #2: GOSS tests are desinged to run on every worker node. The goss test script for iSCSI has check about kubernetes label, so it will proceed if the label is there and will not if no label.  Pls see https://github.com/Cray-HPE/csm-testing/blob/release/1.7/goss-testing/tests/ncn/goss-validate-iscsi-sbps-config.yaml

Reviewer: > > I see that the document has been changed to say to run the steps on every worker that is enabled for iscsi. But that doesn't address the fact that the second step seems like it only needs to be run once, not on every node, unless I am misunderstanding it. And if you are linking to an external page, you probably don't want to tell them to run that on every worker node, because it's possible that page will change in such a way that it has some tests which only need to be run once. As long as that is a page out somewhere else, we don't want to write things here that make those kind of assumptions about it.
> 
> > > I hope you meant the second step "Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created", this has to be run on every node where iSCSI is enabled and all the steps mentioned in this page are intended to run once. Goss tests for iSCSI have a check for kuberentes label (iscsi=sbps) , if this label is present it will do the goss sanity checks else it will bail out with a message that iSCSI is not configured.

The step I meant is the one where you are checking the `dig` output. Does that one need to be run on every iSCSI-enabled worker? It seems like it only needs to be run once, and the output needs to be checked for each iSCSI worker.

Reviewer: > > 2. The Goss step should also not be covered under this "every worker node" umbrella, since that other page may say to run tests on all worker nodes, for example, iSCSI or not. This will be the case once the ticket is addressed to have the tests verify that non-ISCSI nodes have the service inactive, for example. As long as this is pointing to a page somewhere else, than this page should not make declarations like saying that the Goss tests should be run on every iscsi-enabled worker.
> 
> For #2: GOSS tests are desinged to run on every worker node. The goss test script for iSCSI has check about kubernetes label, so it will proceed if the label is there and will not if no label. Pls see https://github.com/Cray-HPE/csm-testing/blob/release/1.7/goss-testing/tests/ncn/goss-validate-iscsi-sbps-config.yaml

The issue is that if you are referencing an external page, it's possible that something will change there that makes the "every worker" statement no longer applicable on this page. If all of the content is on one page, it's fine.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

# Node Personalization Verification

> Worker node personalization installs SBPS Marshal agent, adds `kubernetes` labels for the nodes intended to be configured as

Reviewer: It also removes the labels from workers that are not designated to be iSCSI targets.

> Worker node personalization installs SBPS Marshal agent, adds `kubernetes` labels for the nodes intended to be configured as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Worker node personalization installs the SBPS Marshal agent, adds Kubernetes labels for the worker NCNs intended to be configured as
```

Author: Text suggested is incorporated.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

> Worker node personalization installs SBPS Marshal agent, adds `kubernetes` labels for the nodes intended to be configured as

Reviewer: This should also refer them to the Managing selective personalization page for an explanation of how workers are designated to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

# Node Personalization Verification

Worker node personalization installs SBPS Marshal agent, adds kubernetes labels for the worker NCNs intended to be configured as iSCSI targets, it also removes the labels from workers that are not designated to be iSCSI targets, creates DNS

> SRV and A records etc. See [Managing selective node personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md) for details on how worker NCNs designated to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SRV and A records, etc. See [Managing Selective Node Personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md)
for details on how worker NCNs are designated to be enabled as iSCSI targets.
```

> ## Post-personalization Verification

Reviewer: It seems like it would make more sense to have a sub-header for each of the 3 checks being done here. Right now they are a numbered list, but that doesn't seem like it is necessary, since the order in which they are done doesn't seem important

Author: Addresesed by having sub-header rather than nubered list.

# Node Personalization Verification

Worker node personalization installs the SBPS Marshal agent, adds `kubernetes` labels for the worker NCNs intended to be configured as iSCSI targets, it also removes the labels from workers that are not designated to be iSCSI targets, creates DNS
SRV and A records, etc. See [Managing Selective Node Personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md)
for details on how worker NCNs are designated to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

> (`ncn-w#`) Run these checks on worker nodes that are enabled as an iSCSI target only in order to verify that it is

Reviewer: This introductory text should provide guidance on which of these checks should be considered routine health checks vs those that are something else (troubleshooting steps? More in-depth checks? Manual steps that are also covered by automated Goss tests?)

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

 configured correctly.

> 

Reviewer: Add a table of contents for the subsections

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

## Verify that the SBPS Marshal Agent is running without any errors.

> 

Reviewer: What specifically are they looking for in the output? What needs to be present for this to be looking correct? There is example output give, but it's not clear which parts of it need to be verified. I see that it says up above to check that it's running, which I presume means under the Active field, but that should be stated explicitly. As for "without errors", where are they supposed to verify that? Does that mean it is running rather than failed? Or does it mean an error message in the systemctl status log entries shown in the output (below the part that is shown in the example)?

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

# Node Personalization Verification

Worker node personalization installs the SBPS Marshal agent, adds `kubernetes` labels for the worker NCNs intended to be configured as iSCSI targets, it also removes the labels from workers that are not designated to be iSCSI targets, creates DNS
SRV and A records, etc. See [Managing Selective Node Personalization](Managing_selective_node_personalization.md)
for details on how worker NCNs are designated to be enabled as iSCSI targets.

> ## Post-personalization Verification

Reviewer: This header is superfluous, since it encompasses the entire rest of the page, and there are no other level 2 headers. The other subheaders should be level 2 headers.
```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(`ncn-w#`) Run these checks on worker nodes that are enabled as an iSCSI target only in order to verify that it is
 configured correctly.

> ### Verify that the SBPS Marshal Agent is running without any errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify that the SBPS Marshal Agent is running without any errors.
```

> 1. Verify that the images/LUN mappings are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created.
```

Reviewer: Unresolving this, since local changes were made that overwrote this

Author: Addressed

>     Check to see if the `targetcli ls` output shows that `fileio` backing store are created for `rootfs` images,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Check to see if the `fileio` backing stores exist for `rootfs` images,
```

                 └─ 2878373 /usr/lib/sbps-marshal/bin/python /usr/lib/sbps-marshal/bin/sbps-marshal
    ```

## Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created.

>     Check to see if the `fileio` backing stores exist for `rootfs` images,

Reviewer: Do they need to do this for every rootfs image in IMS? Which rootfs images need to pass this check in order for things to look good?

Author: yes this is for every rootfs image marked for projection.

Reviewer: I was asking not just out of my own curiosity -- I am pretending to be an admin reading this document. Those are questions I had, and so the document should be covering them.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

>     along with corresponding iSCSI `LUNs`. These should have the `rootfs` ID being mapped and network portals created (HSN and NMN).

Reviewer: More specifics need to be provided about how to do this verification. I see that example output is given, but even assuming I already know the rootfs ID (although ideally we would tell them how to get that), what in the output tells me that it is mapped. Also, what in the output shows that these network portal are created for the rootfs image? From reading this, it's not clear to me how to actually check any of this.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

                 └─ 2878373 /usr/lib/sbps-marshal/bin/python /usr/lib/sbps-marshal/bin/sbps-marshal
    ```

> ### Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify that the images and LUN mappings have been created.
```

      o- xen-pvscsi ....................................................................................................... [Targets: 0]
    ```

> ## Verify that all the DNS SRV and A records are configured for all the intended worker nodes.

Reviewer: These subsection headers in this page should be shorter. The header should be relatively short, and then the text at the top of the section should provide additional context (rather than just making giant headers)

Author: We can shorten it as "Verify DNS SRV and A records are configured"

Reviewer: Or just "Verify DNS"

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

> ## Verify that all the DNS SRV and A records are configured for all the intended worker nodes.

Reviewer: This says to verify that "all" the DNS SRV and A records are configured. How do they know it is all of them? For that matter, how are they supposed to parse any of that example output?

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

> 

Reviewer: Need to clarify what is meant by "intended worker nodes"

Author: we can reword as 'intended to be iSCSI target nodes'

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

    ```bash

>     dig -t SRV +short _sbps-hsn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net _sbps-nmn._tcp.odin.hpc.amslabs.hpecorp.net

Reviewer: I doubt that is the right hostname for a customer site to use. How do they get the right values to use for this command?

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

      o- xen-pvscsi ....................................................................................................... [Targets: 0]
    ```

> ### Verify that all the DNS SRV and A records are configured for all the intended worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify that all the DNS SRV and A records are configured for all the intended worker nodes.
```

    10.252.1.11
    ```

## Run readiness checks.

>     After worker node personalization, in order to verify the overall readiness of the iSCSI targets before booting compute nodes or UANs,

Reviewer: This final check says that it should be done after personalization to verify the readiness. But no information is given about when or why the previous checks would be run. They each need to be updated to have a similar statement giving that context.

Reviewer: Marking this resolved because the work on the verification page is moving to [CASMPET-7640](https://jira-pro.it.hpe.com:8443/browse/CASMPET-7640). Once a PR is open for that, I'll add comments for the relevant issues identified in this PR.

    10.252.1.11
    ```

> ### Run readiness checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run readiness checks.
```
